.TH PCL720 "9" "2014-11-27" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

pcl720 \- Driver for the Advantech PCL 720 card.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt pcl720 [ioaddr=\fIN\fB]
.RS 4
.TP
\fBioaddr\fR
Base address of card. Separate each card base address
with a comma but no space to load more than one card. eg
loadrt pcl720 ioaddr=0x200,0x200. use 0xNNN to define addresses in Hex
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION

This driver supports the Advantech PCL720 ISA card. It might
work with the PCI version too, but this is untested. 
 It creates hal pins corresonding to the digital inputs and outputs, but does
not support the the counters/timers.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBpcl720.\fIN\fB.read\fR
Reads each of the digital inputs and updates the HAL pins
.TP
\fBpcl720.\fIN\fB.write\fR
Writes the values of the output HAL pins to the digital IO
.TP
\fBpcl720.\fIN\fB.reset\fR
Waits for the length of time specified by the
\fBreset-time\fP parameter and resets any pins for which the \fBreset\fP
parameter has been set. This can be used to allow step generators to make a step
every thread rather than every other thread. This function must be added to the
thread after the "write" function.
 Do not use this function if you do not wish to reset any pins.
 the stepgen \fBstep-space\fP parameter should be set to 0 to make use of this
function.
.SH PINS
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.pin-\fIMM\fB-out\fR bit in  (MM=00..31) \fR
Output pins
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.pin-\fIMM\fB-in\fR bit out  (MM=00..31) \fR
Input pins
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.pin-\fIMM\fB-in-not\fR bit out  (MM=00..31) \fR
Inverted version of each input pin
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.wait-clocks\fR u32 out \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.reset-time\fR u32 rw \fR(default: \fI5000\fR)
The time in nanoseconds after the write function
has run to reset the pins for which the "reset" parameter is set.
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.pin-\fIMM\fB-reset\fR bit rw  (MM=00..31) \fR
specifies if the pin should be reset by the "reset"
function
.TP
.B pcl720.\fIN\fB.pin-\fIMM\fB-out-invert\fR bit rw  (MM=00..31) \fR
Set to true to invert the sense of the output pin
.SH AUTHOR

Andy Pugh
.SH LICENSE

GPL
